5568 clustered docs need to be updated claim hard limit of 250 columns per database (#5573)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/clustered/query-data/troubleshoot-and-optimize/optimize-queries.md

{{% note %}}
#### Analyze query plans to view metrics and recognize bottlenecks

To view runtime metrics for a query, such as the number of files scanned, use
the [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE` keywords](/influxdb/clustered/reference/sql/explain/#explain-analyze)
and learn how to [analyze a query plan](/influxdb/clustered/query-data/troubleshoot-and-optimize/analyze-query-plan/).
{{% /note %}}

### Query only the data you need

#### Include a WHERE clause

> InfluxDB v3 stores data in a Parquet file for each measurement and day, and
> retrieves files from the Object store to answer a query.
> To reduce the number of files that a query needs to retrieve from the Object store,
> include a [`WHERE` clause](/influxdb/clustered/reference/sql/where/) that
> filters data by a time range.

Reviewer: In Clustered, users can custom-partition the data.

```suggestion
InfluxDB v3 stores data in a Parquet file for each partition.
By default, {{< product-name >}} partitions tables by day, but you can also
[custom-partition your data](/influxdb/clustered/admin/custom-partitions/).
At query time, InfluxDB retrieves files from the Object store to answer a query.
To reduce the number of files that a query needs to retrieve from the Object store,
include a [`WHERE` clause](/influxdb/clustered/reference/sql/where/) that
filters data by a time range or by specific tag values.
```
